Update observability doc structure and content (#35816)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-observability/user-guides/debug-apps/debug-memory.rst

.. _ray-core-mem-profiling:

Debugging Memory Issues

> =======================

Reviewer: nice that we move it to here :)

.. _troubleshooting-out-of-memory:

Debugging Out of Memory
-----------------------

> Before reading this section, it is recommended to understand Ray's :ref:`Memory Management <memory>` model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before reading this section, familiarize yourself with the Ray :ref:`Memory Management <memory>` model.
```

> - To find if your cluster has out-of-memory problems, view :ref:`How to Detect Out-of-Memory Errors? <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-how-to-detect>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If your cluster has out-of-memory problems, see :ref:`How to Detect Out-of-Memory Errors? <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-how-to-detect>`.
```

> - To find what leaks the memory, view :ref:`Find per Task and Actor Memory Usage <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-task-actor-mem-usage>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To locate the source of the memory leak, see :ref:`Find per Task and Actor Memory Usage <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-task-actor-mem-usage>`.
```

- If your head node has high memory usage, view :ref:`Head Node Out-of-Memory Error <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-head>`.
- If your memory usage is high due to high parallelism, view :ref:`Reduce Parallelism <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-reduce-parallelism>`.

> - If you want to profile per task and actor memory usage, view :ref:`Profile Task and Actor Memory Usage <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-profile>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you want to profile per Task and Actor memory usage, view :ref:`Profile Task and Actor Memory Usage <troubleshooting-out-of-memory-profile>`.
```

What's the Out-of-Memory Error?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Memory is a limited resource. When a process requests memory and the OS fails to allocate memory, the OS executes a routine to free up memory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Memory is a limited resource. When a process requests memory and the OS fails to allocate it, the OS executes a routine to free up memory
```

> by killing a process that has high memory usage (via SIGKILL) to avoid the OS becoming unstable. It is called `Linux Out of Memory killer <https://www.kernel.org/doc/gorman/html/understand/understand016.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by killing a process that has high memory usage (via SIGKILL) to avoid the OS becoming unstable. This routine is called the `Linux Out of Memory killer <https://www.kernel.org/doc/gorman/html/understand/understand016.html>`_.
```

> One of the common problems of the Linux out-of-memory killer is that processes are killed by a SIGKILL without Ray noticing it. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the common problems of the Linux out-of-memory killer is that SIGKILL kills processes without Ray noticing it. 
```

> Since SIGKILL cannot be handled by processes, it makes Ray difficult to raise a proper error message

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since SIGKILL cannot be handled by processes, Ray has difficulty raising a proper error message
```

> and take proper actions for fault tolerance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and taking proper actions for fault tolerance.
```

> To solve this problem, Ray built and enabled (from Ray 2.2) an application-level :ref:`memory monitor <ray-oom-monitor>`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To solve this problem, Ray has (from Ray 2.2) an application-level :ref:`memory monitor <ray-oom-monitor>`,
```

> which keeps monitoring the memory usage of the host and kills the Ray workers before the Linux out-of-memory killer kicks in. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which continually monitors the memory usage of the host and kills the Ray workers before the Linux out-of-memory killer executes. 
```

.. _troubleshooting-out-of-memory-how-to-detect:

> How to Detect Out-of-Memory Errors?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Detecting Out-of-Memory errors
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If tasks or actors are killed by the Linux out-of-memory killer, Ray worker processes are unable to catch and display an exact root cause

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the Linux out-of-memory killer terminates Tasks or Actors, Ray worker processes are unable to catch and display an exact root cause
```

> because SIGKILL cannot be handled by processes. If you call ``ray.get`` into the tasks and actors that were executed from the dead worker,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
because SIGKILL cannot be handled by processes. If you call ``ray.get`` into the Tasks and Actors that were executed from the dead worker,
```

> it will raise an exception with one of the following error messages (which indicates the worker is killed unexpectedly).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it raises an exception with one of the following error messages (which indicates the worker is killed unexpectedly).
```

.. code-block:: bash

  Worker exit type: UNEXPECTED_SY STEM_EXIT Worker exit detail: Worker unexpectedly exits with a connection error code 2. End of file. There are some potential root causes. (1) The process is killed by SIGKILL by OOM killer due to high memory usage. (2) ray stop --force is called. (3) The worker is crashed unexpectedly due to SIGSEGV or other unexpected errors.

.. code-block:: bash

  Worker exit type: SYSTEM_ERROR Worker exit detail: The leased worker has unrecoverable failure. Worker is requested to be destroyed when it is returned.

> Also, you can use the `dmesg <https://phoenixnap.com/kb/dmesg-linux#:~:text=The%20dmesg%20command%20is%20a,take%20place%20during%20system%20startup.>`_ CLI command to verify the processes are killed by the Linux out-of-memory killer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use the `dmesg <https://phoenixnap.com/kb/dmesg-linux#:~:text=The%20dmesg%20command%20is%20a,take%20place%20during%20system%20startup.>`_ CLI command to verify the processes are killed by the Linux out-of-memory killer.
```

.. image:: ../../images/dmsg.png
    :align: center

> If the worker is killed by Ray's memory monitor, they are automatically retried (see the :ref:`link <ray-oom-retry-policy>` for the detail).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Ray's memory monitor kills the worker, it is automatically retried (see the :ref:`link <ray-oom-retry-policy>` for the detail).
```

> If tasks or actors cannot be retried, they raise an exception with 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Tasks or Actors cannot be retried, they raise an exception with 
```

  (raylet) 
  (raylet) Refer to the documentation on how to address the out of memory issue: https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/scheduling/ray-oom-prevention.html. Consider provisioning more memory on this node or reducing task parallelism by requesting more CPUs per task. To adjust the kill threshold, set the environment variable `RAY_memory_usage_threshold` when starting Ray. To disable worker killing, set the environment variable `RAY_memory_monitor_refresh_ms` to zero.

Ray Dashboard's :ref:`metrics page <dash-metrics-view>` and :ref:`event page <dash-event>` also provides the out-of-memory killer-specific events and metrics.

.. image:: ../../images/oom-metrics.png
    :align: center

.. image:: ../../images/oom-events.png
    :align: center

.. _troubleshooting-out-of-memory-task-actor-mem-usage:

Find per Task and Actor Memory Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If tasks or actors are failed by Out-of-memory errors, they are retried based on :ref:`retry policies <ray-oom-retry-policy>`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Tasks or Actors fail because of out-of-memory errors, they are retried based on :ref:`retry policies <ray-oom-retry-policy>`. 
```

However, it is often more desirable to find the root causes of memory issues and fix them instead of relying on fault tolerance mechanisms.
This section explains how to debug out-of-memory errors in Ray.

First, find the tasks and actors that use high memory usage. View the :ref:`per task and actor memory usage graph <dash-workflow-cpu-memory-analysis>` for more details.

> The memory usage from the per component graph uses RSS - SHR. See the below for reasoning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The memory usage from the per component graph uses RSS - SHR. See below for reasoning.
```

Alternatively, you can also use the CLI command `htop <https://htop.dev/>`_.

.. image:: ../../images/htop.png
    :align: center

See the ``allocate_memory`` row. See two columns, RSS and SHR. 

SHR usage is typically the memory usage from the Ray object store. The Ray object store allocates 30% of host memory to the shared memory (``/dev/shm``, unless you specify ``--object-store-memory``).
If Ray workers access the object inside the object store using ``ray.get``, SHR usage increases. Since the Ray object store supports the :ref:`zero-copy <serialization-guide>`
deserialization, several workers can access the same object without copying them to in-process memory. For example, if

> 8 workers access the same object inside the Ray object store, each process' ``SHR`` usage increases. However, they are not using 8 * SHR memory (there's only 1 copy in the shared memory). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8 workers access the same object inside the Ray object store, each process' ``SHR`` usage increases. However, they are not using 8 * SHR memory (there's only 1 copy in the shared memory). 
```

Also note that Ray object store triggers :ref:`object spilling <object-spilling>` when the object usage goes beyond the limit, which means the memory usage from the shared memory won't exceed 30%
of the host memory.

> It means when there are out-of-memory issues from a host, it is due to RSS usage from each worker. We recommend to calculate per

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Out-of-memory issues from a host, are due to RSS usage from each worker. Calculate per
```

> process memory usage by RSS - SHR because SHR is for Ray object store as explained above. That said, the total memory usage is typically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
process memory usage by RSS - SHR because SHR is for Ray object store as explained above. The total memory usage is typically
```

``SHR (object store memory usage, 30% of memory) + sum(RSS - SHR from each ray proc) + sum(RSS - SHR from system components. e.g., raylet, GCS. Usually small)``.

.. _troubleshooting-out-of-memory-head:

> Head Node Out-of-Memory Error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Head node out-of-Memory error
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, check the head node memory usage from the metrics page. Find the head node address from the cluster page.

.. image:: ../../images/head-node-addr.png
    :align: center

> And then check the memory usage from the head node from the node memory usage view inside the Dashboard :ref:`metrics view <dash-metrics-view>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then check the memory usage from the head node from the node memory usage view inside the Dashboard :ref:`metrics view <dash-metrics-view>`.
```

.. image:: ../../images/metrics-node-view.png
    :align: center

> Ray head node has more memory-demanding system components such as GCS or the dashboard. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Ray head node has more memory-demanding system components such as GCS or the dashboard. 
```

> Also, driver runs from a head node by default. If the head node has the same memory capacity as worker nodes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, the driver runs from a head node by default. If the head node has the same memory capacity as worker nodes
```

> and if you execute the same number of tasks and actors from a head node, it can easily have out-of-memory problems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and if you execute the same number of Tasks and Actors from a head node, it can easily have out-of-memory problems.
```

> In this case, we recommend you not running any tasks and actors to the head node. This is achievable by specifying ``--num-cpus=0`` when starting a head node by ``ray start --head`` (if you use Kuberay, view `<specify-node-resources>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this case, do not run any Tasks and Actors on the head node by specifying ``--num-cpus=0`` when starting a head node by ``ray start --head``. If you use Kuberay, view `<specify-node-resources>`.
```

.. _troubleshooting-out-of-memory-reduce-parallelism:

Reduce Parallelism
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> High parallelism can trigger out-of-memory errors. For example, imagine 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
High parallelism can trigger out-of-memory errors. For example, if
```

you have 8 training workers that perform the data preprocessing -> training. 
If you load too much data into each worker, the total memory usage (``training worker mem usage * 8``) can exceed the
memory capacity. 

> You can verify it by looking at the :ref:`per task and actor memory usage graph <dash-workflow-cpu-memory-analysis>`. And the task metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify the memory usage by looking at the :ref:`per Task and Actor memory usage graph <dash-workflow-cpu-memory-analysis>`. And the Task metrics.
```

> First, see the memory usage of a ``allocate_memory`` task. It is total 18GB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, see the memory usage of an ``allocate_memory`` task. The total is 18GB.
```

> At the same time, you can verify 15 concurrent tasks running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the same time, verify the 15 concurrent tasks that are running.
```

.. image:: ../../images/component-memory.png
    :align: center

.. image:: ../../images/tasks-graph.png
    :align: center

> It means each task uses about 18GB / 15 == 1.2 GB. To reduce the parallelism,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each task uses about 18GB / 15 == 1.2 GB. To reduce the parallelism,
```

- `Limit the max number of running tasks <https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/patterns/limit-running-tasks.html>`_. 

> - increase the ``num_cpus`` options for :func:`ray.remote`. Modern hardware typically has 4GB of memory per CPU, so you can choose the CPU requirements accordingly. For this example, we specified 1 CPU per each ``allocate_memory`` task. If we double the CPU requirements, you can only run half of tasks (7) at the same time, meaning memory usage won't exceed 9GB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Increase the ``num_cpus`` options for :func:`ray.remote`. Modern hardware typically has 4GB of memory per CPU, so you can choose the CPU requirements accordingly. This example specifies 1 CPU per ``allocate_memory`` Task. Doubling the CPU requirements, runs only half(7) of the Tasks at the same time, and memory usage doesn't exceed 9GB.
```

.. _troubleshooting-out-of-memory-profile:

> Profile Task and Actor Memory Usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Profiling Task and Actor memory usage
```
